---
layout: post
title: Week 9 Rebase Practice & Group Project
---

## Rebase Practice

I thought I was somehow familiar with Git; turned out to be not true. The rebase practice on Monday kinda stressed me out, like, I didn’t even know the git log graph should be interpreted from bottom to top. I thought I’ve learned and understood what rebasing is from the lectures before the spring break, but the practice this week made me realize that the concept is still fairly new to me. Although I’m quite comfortable with the command line, the rebase practice was still very challenging for me. I tried to produce the repository for several times, but each time the repository I got would look slightly different from the sample repository we were suppose to recreate, which was frustrating. I really should do more Git practices on my own and get more familiar with Git. 

What I would also like to mention is that working as a group via Zoom certainly has made things more awkward for me. Being the type of person with an introvert personality, I now have even less motivation (and courage) to talk when we are working remotely.


## Group Project
Our group has decided earlier to work on [Lemmy](https://github.com/dessalines/lemmy), an open-source alternative to Reddit as the project that we will be working on till the end of the semester. Unfortunately Charlie who proposed to work on Lemmy will not be available for some time, so it is now just Nishant and I who will be meeting and working as a group. 
